To Delete: Palette Virtual Cluster Pause/Resume (#976)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/04.5-devx/07-sandbox-clusters/00-pause-restore-virtual-clusters.md

---

> title: "Pause and Restore Palette Virtual Clusters"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Pause and Resume Palette Virtual Clusters"
```

> metaTitle: "Palette Dev Engine Pause and Restore Palette Virtual Clusters"

Reviewer: If you change the title, does the metaTitle also need updating to match?

Author: not mandatory

metaDescription: "Pause and Restore Palette Virtual Clusters"
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import PointsOfInterest from 'shared/components/common/PointOfInterest';
import Tooltip from "shared/components/ui/Tooltip";

# Overview

> Palette allows the pause and resume of Palette Virtual Clusters when not in use. This feature enables the users to optimize resource utilization by pausing the virtual clusters not in use. This adds significant flexibility in managing operating costs and resource management for the Palette Virtual Clusters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To optimize resource utilization, Palette allows you to pause and resume virtual clusters that are not in use. This adds significant flexibility in managing operating costs and resource management for virtual clusters. 
```

> Palette allows the pause and resume of Palette Virtual Clusters when not in use. This feature enables the users to optimize resource utilization by pausing the Virtual Clusters, not in use. This adds significant flexibility in managing operating costs and resource management for the Palette Virtual Clusters. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Palette allows the pause and resume of Palette Virtual Clusters when not in use. This feature enables the users to optimize resource utilization by pausing the virtual clusters not in use. This adds significant flexibility in managing operating costs and resource management for the Palette Virtual Clusters. 
```

> Palette allows the pause and resume of Palette Virtual Clusters when not in use. This feature enables the users to optimize resource utilization by pausing the Virtual Clusters, not in use. This adds significant flexibility in managing operating costs and resource management for the Palette Virtual Clusters. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Palette allows the pause and resume of Palette Virtual Clusters when not in use. This feature enables the users to optimize resource utilization by pausing the Virtual Clusters, not in use. This adds significant flexibility in managing operating costs and resource management for the Palette Virtual Clusters. 
```
The intro paragraph is identical to the intro paragraph of the reference page.  This intro paragraph should accomplish two things:
1. Explain to the user that the content below provides instructions on how to pause and restart a cluster.

2. Where to go if they want to learn more about this feature. This would be a link back to the reference page.

# Prerequisite

> * Running [Palette Virtual Cluster](/devx/sandbox-clusters#createyoursandboxcluster:).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A Running [Palette Virtual Cluster](/devx/sandbox-clusters#createyoursandboxcluster:).
```

> #  How to Pause and Resume your Palette Virtual Cluster

Reviewer 2: We need a validation section after this. It may sound silly but how can the user validate the cluster is paused?

> #  How to Pause and Resume your Palette Virtual Cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#  Pause and Resume a Palette Virtual Cluster
```
This shortens the title

Invoke the pause and resume operations from the Palette Console.

1. Log in to the **Palette Dev Engine** Console.

> 2. Select Palette Virtual Cluster from the **left ribbon menu**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Navigate to the **Main Menu** and select **Palette Virtual Cluster**.
```

> 3. Go to the cluster details page by clicking the name of the Palette Virtual Cluster to be paused.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select the name of the virtual cluster to pause. The cluster details page displays.
```

> 4. Click **Settings** and Select the **Pause** option. To resume a paused Virtual Cluster, select the **Resume** option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click **Settings** and select the **Pause** option. To resume a paused virtual cluster, select the **Resume** option.
```

> * Click **Settings** and Select the **Pause** option. To resume a paused Virtual Cluster, select the **Resume** option.

Reviewer 2: Because these are sequential steps, we should use an ordered list with numbers instead of generic bullet points.
